Sir Cabirus
Ultima Homepage
HomeContact Sir CabirusLinks
Article
Ultima Underworld II Walkthrough - Interlude VI - Cutting the First Lines of The Guardian's Power
 


This chapter contains 4 maps. To call up another map than the one shown here, click on the dog-eared corners on the right-hand side of the map. Please note that the initial view starts with Killorn Keep and you need to go up to the Tower and then down to the other two worlds. For further information and screenshots explore the map with the cursor. Be careful - even unmarked areas could be sensitive. Please close every little pop up browser window before you initiate a new one.

Overview
Revisit the 4 worlds you have explored so far to cut the Guardian's Lines of power.

Killorn Keep
You got the sceptre of Altara in Killorn Keep, so you should start your quest right there. Descend to the west corner of level 2 and defeat the mighty guard who stands watch in front of the massive locked door. The spells Luck (In Lor) and Bleeding (Jux Mani) as well as a potion of healing could be useful. But be warned! The guardsman will transform into a daemon as soon as he is nigh unto death.
You now have access to the massive locked door, but no key[1]. Cast Open (Ex Ylem) to unlock the door and enter the room behind. Use the pearl-tipped rod of Altara to cut the lines of the Guardian. You will notice a shudder of the ground. This is the sign that your action was successful. Don't harm the Brain Creatures, otherwise the keep will crash and everybody dies.
Prison Tower
The Guardian's place of power is the cell of Bishop. So don't forget to wear your fraznium gauntlets.
You can also visit Garg for a conversation. He will give you a shredded scroll
Avatar,
Do not omit in thy travels to speak with a
mage named Zoranthus -- thou shalt find him in
a prison of his own..
   - Bishop
Ice Caves
Return to the city of Anodunos. Use Altara's sceptre near the frozen wells. Talk to Beatrice and she will thank your for destroying this Guardian's place of power. The duty of the lady mayor is done now and she gets her final peace.
Talorus
The Guardian's place of power is the Bliy Skup chamber. You still have access to this chamber because Bliy Skup Ductosnore is working therein.
Notes
↑ Ogri will give you a hint about the location of the key, after you bring him the Banner of Killorn Keep.
>> Scintillus Academy
<< The Sceptre of Altara
<< Walkthrough Index

 

×
<MEDIA>@https://www.sircabirus.com

Datenschutzerklärung / Privacy Policy    |   Impressum / Site Notice   |    Copyright © 2022 Frank Wolter. All rights reserved.