This website use cookies for Google Analytics. Visit the Privacy / Datenschutzerklärung page to disable Google Analytics. Diese Website benutzt Cookies für Google Analytics. Besuchen Sie die Datenschutzerklärung-Seite um Google Analytics auszuschalten. Learn more
Got it!
Sir Cabirus
Ultima Homepage
HomeContact Sir CabirusLinks
Article
Ultima Underworld II Walkthrough - Interlude IX - Preparations - Part I
 


Overview
Back from the Tomb of Praecor Loth you prepare yourself for the next steps to rescue Britannia from the influence of the Guardian.

Things you must do
Visit Nystul and tell him about the horn of Praecor Loth. Nystul informs you about the power of the horn. The horn is actually a mighty weapon because it destroys solid walls and other structures with the raw power of its shattering sound. Unfortunately Praecor Loth was the only one who was able to blow this horn. Now you must find another way to wind the horn to destroy the gem which surrounds the castle of Lord British. You remember Zoranthus and his work with air-demons. He has offered you a Djinn-bottle with a captured djinn as a reward when you bring him a Sceptre of Deadly Seeker. Maybe releasing the djinn could be a way to blow the horn. You haven't found this sceptre in the worlds you have visited so far, so perhaps you can find it somewhere in the only world you have not visited yet.
Nystul will also magically treat the blackrock gem you have found in the Tomb of Praecor Loth. Return to the sewers and use the gem on the larger gem as you have done 7 times before. Step through the facet left from the entry to the Tomb of Praecor Loth and enter the Ethereal Void.
Things you should do
Visit the trainers of your choice (in the worlds of your choice) and improve some skills.
Things you can do
Talk to Miranda, she will recommend that you visit Nystul if you haven't already done this.
>> Interlude X - Visions of the Ethereal Void
<< Tomb of Praecor Loth
<< Walkthrough Index

 


Datenschutzerklärung / Privacy Policy    |   Impressum / Site Notice   |    Copyright © 2022 Frank Wolter. All rights reserved.