
Ultima Underworld II Walkthrough
================================

[Adapted from https://wiki.ultimacodex.com/wiki/Ultima_Underworld_II_Walkthrough.]


This is a complete walkthrough for Ultima Underworld II. Note that it will not
go into too many details; only the tasks are listed here. The walkthrough is
divided into tasks you have to do, things you should do and important loot for
each world. Note that important loot are things that you can reach without
trouble, without any kind of task or event.


Britannia
---------

[Maps.]

This is your home base. Britannia should be well known to you. The Castle
Britannia and its cellar are safe places. However, the sewers beneath are
filled with dangers that for a weak Avatar are deadly. You will return here
often. It is the blackrock jewel on the fifth level that enables you to travel
to all the different worlds.

(X) = Tasks you can only do or solve after visiting another world or a story
point.

Things you have to do
---------------------

You awaken in your quarters in Castle British. Now, gather your equipment in
your room, including an auto-map. A more complete cache of equipment (rune bag,
runes, etc.) lies behind the secret door in the north wall. Talk with everyone
in the castle. First, when the Guardian makes his first appearance in the
throne room. Afterwards, do it every time you return from an other world,
since everyone has something new to say.

Advice: Always be polite and helpful, even if the others sometimes are not.

Dupre reports an infestation of monsters in the sewers. He will give you the
key to the ladder downwards.

Take the eggshell of a dread spider on the northern part of level 4. You will
need it later for Killorn Keep.

Find the blackrock jewel on level 5 and use it to enter other worlds.

(X) Use the small blackrock gems from the other worlds after a treatment from
Nystul to permanently open these worlds for travel.

(X) Killorn Keep and Anodunos will become available after entering the 8th
level of Tarna and then talking with Miranda.

(X) Talorus, the Academy and the Pits of Carnage will become available after
the murder of Lady Tory (see below).

(X) Rhiannon and the Ethereal Void will become available after avenging the
murder of Nelson. (see below)

(X) Sometime after visiting Killorn Keep, the servants will threaten to go on
strike. Speak with Lord British, then talk with Nanna. Be very nice to her
and agree with her demands, then convey them to Lord British. Wait several
game hours, then talk with him again. Bring his answer to Nanna.

(X) After getting the dagger from Altara on Killorn Keep, find the Listener on
level 4, and kill it with the weapon.

(X) After getting the blackrock gem from Anodunos and killing the Listener,
talking to Miranda will reveal that a traitor has killed Lady Tory. You can
investigate, but not do anything about it yet.

(X) After talking with Zoranthus, having the gem from the Academy and fusing
the Talorus gem with the jewel, Miranda will tell you, that Nelson has something
important to say. However, right when Nelson wants to reveal the solution to the
problem, Patterson will murder him! Kill Patterson in combat, revealing him as
Lady Tory's murderer, then talk with the others as well.

Things you should do
--------------------

You will find Fissif on the third level in the sewers.  Advice: Be nice to him
and after getting your pocket watch back, say you want to arrest him. Add that
in the sewers, only hunger and death will await him, and he will surrender and
become a trainer.

Get the armoury key from behind the reaper on level 4. It is hidden in the
small alcove. Since battling the reaper would be difficult this early, just run
in, grab the key, and run out. You can kill it later. Unlock the armoury for
good equipment.

Unlock the shortcut from level 5 back to the castle.

Defeat the two gazers on level 3 to get some basilisk oil. Store it in you room,
as you need it later.

Help the goblins on level 4 with the bloodworms at the lake.  First demand from
the unnamed goblin what he is doing here and tell him he is trespassing.
Afterwards remark that he knows his way around and accept a token tracking
training.

(X) Returning much later (after Patterson's death), he will give you the Order
Serpent.

(X) Sometime after visiting the Academy, Charles will tell you that he found a
key. It will open a door on level 3, where you have to defeat a strong red
haunt. The reward besides loot, are a NOX rune stone and the second moonstone,
enabling gate travel.

Important Loot
--------------

In the armoury, you can find the rock hammer, a tool of great importance. There
are the Leather Leggings of Stealth (possibly less useful), too.

At the top of the western waterfall on level three, you can find the Chain Cowl
of Valor. It has the same effect as the spell, greatly enhancing your battle powers.

In the south-westernmost room on level three is the Leather Vest of Additional
Protection.

Next the the armoury key on level 4, a Jeweled Sword of Major Damage can be found.
It is discovered by looking at the biggest plant, which also has the brightest
shade of green.

[Figure 1: The jeweled sword.]


Tarna
-----

The Prison Tower of Tarna is a very tricky place. This early in the game,
blowing your cover can be deadly. It is much better to use your smarts and if
you play your cards right, you will not be drawn into a single fight on this
world.

(X) = Tasks you can only do or solve after visiting another world or a story point

Things you have to do
---------------------

Move the small box on level 1 and pick up the voucher. Show it to the guard on
level 2 to get free access to the tower.

Be friendly to the goblin blacksmith on level 5 and suggest to him to coat normal
gauntlets with fraznium. Talk to him again and ask for a spare pair of gauntlets,
which you get.

Play along with Borne confusing you with the inquisitor and promise to "crack
Bishop like a nut". Borne will give you the password and another pair of
gauntlets. Use the password to reach Bishop on level 8 and after a long chat,
give him your spare gauntlets to free him.

Return to Borne and demand the blackrock gem. He will release it to you.

(X) After having Altara's Scepter, use it in Bishop's cell on level 8 to cut
the line of power.

Things you should do
--------------------

Take the grey stone on level 1. You will have a use for it in the Pits of Carnage.

Talk with Felix on level 4. Turns out he wants the goblins dead so that he and
Marcus can flee. You have to be careful with what you say, or it could have
unfortunate results. Now you have two options to accomplish this:

The old-fashioned way. Kill everyone by yourself.

The smart way. Talk to Borne and demand the keys. He will give you a password for
Janar, who will release the keys. Free Garg on level 6 and tell him to go on a
rampage. Now all the goblins are dead.

Hint: of course you can get the keys and then kill the goblins, before freeing
Garg, as this give the maximum experience reward.

Once this is done, return to Felix to get a food-producing box, and he and Marcus leave.
Use the keys to free Milenus on level 8.

(X) Visit Garg several times during the game. He will give you two messages from Bishop.

Important Loot
--------------
None.


Killorn Keep
------------

The Killorn Keep is held under the control of the Guardian. Therefore it is most
important to keep your identity a secret. Not much fighting is going on, even in the
basement, but plot-critical events will take place here.

(X) = Tasks you can only do or solve after visiting another world or a story point

Things you have to do
---------------------

Get the blackrock gem from the basement. You have to put out the candles to de-activate
the teleport trap and defeat the headless, before you can take it.  Advice: throw the candles away.

You have to gain Altara's help. However, to do this, you first have to ease the
suspicion of Mystell.

Talk with everyone in the castle except Relk and Altara. Then talk with Mystell
and first use a fake name and then the facts you have learned to make her trust
you.  Now you can talk with Altara and say that Bishop sends you.

(X) Altara first wants you to kill the Listener in Britannia. Return to
Britannia and find the Listener on the 4th level near the big lake. Advice:
use the dagger that has been given by Altara.

(X) Altara now wants you to create a special scepter. She gives you a special
black pearl. She also needs the egg shell of a dread spider (which you may already
have. If not, you will find it in dread spider colony at the north end of Britannia)
and an amethyst rod (you can find it on Talorus). Once you have all three things,
give them to her to get Altara's Scepter.

(X) Find the secret door in the barracks. Kill the (exceptionally resilent) daemon
and enter the engine room with the key from one of the barrels in the basement
to cut the line of power with the scepter (standing close to the door and using
the scepter also works).

Things you should do
--------------------

Share a drink with Lobar and listen to his story. Getting his trust is important
for another side-task.

(X) After gaining Altara's and Mystell's favor, speak with Relk. Then go to his
quarters. There he will attack you, because he knows who you are. You have to
defend yourself against him! Some will scold you but most are happy about it
and Lobar now offers training for the sword.

Additionally, before you speak with Relk you should first talk with Blackie and
then Beauty, who tells you that Josie is very thirsty. Give Josie some water
and she'll reveal what Relk did with the blackrock gem, meaning you then can
confront him about it in his quarters to get additional information.

(X) Talk with a Trilkhai and then with Blackie. Promise to help. After getting
the answer from the xorinite wisp in the Void, tell Blackie what you have learned.

(X) Promise Ogri to return the Killorn Banner. You find the banner near the
spirit of Praecor Loth on Rhiannon. When you return it to him, he will reveal
a secret to you.

Important Loot
--------------

In the basement you can find the Longsword of Major Accuracy.


Anodunos
--------

The ice caves of Anodunos are all that is left after the Guardian was done with
this place. You will have to survive the great dangers that lurks through this
frozen world to actually reach the remains of this once great city.

(X) = Tasks you can only do or solve after visiting another world or a story point

Things you have to do
---------------------

Your main goal is to gain access to the city of Anodunos. However, to do so,
some steps are needed.

Manage to reach the second level in order to find the stairs to the other half of level 1.

Kill Sentinel 868 to gain access to the control tower. Now follow Anodunos dam
control puzzle in order to solve the puzzle by first getting the key and then
reaching the door to pull the chain to open the floodgates.

Now the entrance to the city is freed and can be reached with Water Walk. Talk to Beatrice.

Get the blackrock gem on the 2nd level. It is a little difficult to reach, being
surrounded by slippery ice.

(X) Free the city of Anodunos by cutting the line of power near the central fountain
with the scepter. Then talk to Beatrice again.

Things you should do
--------------------

Get the map from the failed adventurers. It will spare you mapping the area.

(X) If you give Mokpo some Dream Herbs, (after getting some and testing it)
he will give you some important clues.

Important Loot
--------------

Jump off the control tower on level one and enter the water slide with Water Walk
activated. In the northern part you will find an alcove, and in it guarded by a
ghost, the Ring of Protection.

In the city of Anodunos itself, you find the Mace of Major Damage, but you first have to repair it.

In the eastern part of the city are numerous important rune stones.

Talorus
-------

Only one enemy will try to stop you. And while the Vorz are weak, they can attack in
masses. Talorus is less about brute force and more about solving a very complex problem.

(X) = Tasks you can only do or solve after visiting another world or a story point

Things you have to do
---------------------

To actually get the blackrock gem and the place of power, you have to fulfill a lengthy puzzle.

Talk with the Historian. Learn about everything you need to know.

Next talk with the Futurian and also learn everything. From now on, Vorz will attack you,
as the Guardian has become aware of you.

Try to talk with the Data Integrator.

After the failure first talk with Futurian again, then the Dialogicans. Ask for help and take their scroll.

Now again talk with the Data Integrator.

Get Control Crystal M4Y8.

Go to level 2. First take Control Crystal E0Y2, then battle all the Vorz
and take the Delgnigzator.

Kill the Bliy Skup, then enter the production chamber. Put M4Y8 on yellow pad,
E0Y2 on purple pad and the Delgnigzator on the circle. Pull the chain,
then talk with the new Bily Skup.

Return to Historian, and he will teleport you to the blackrock gem.

(X) Return and use the scepter in the Bliy Skup chamber to cut the line of power.

Things you should do
--------------------

None.

Important Loot
--------------

The nutritious wafers are the best food in the game. Take them all.
Amongst the masses of boots on level 2, there is one pair of Leather Boots of Bounce.


Scintillus Academy
------------------

[Figure 2: The secret vault.]

This is a mage academy, long devastated by the Guardian. However, to actually reach
the great rewards this world promises, you have to take the final exam and use brains
and brawn to manage your way through the tests.

Things you have to do
---------------------

Take the final exam in order to get both of the things you need from this world.
Note than on the levels 2-7, no mana regenerates.

Level 1: Put the gold coffer on the middle pressure plate that opens the right-hand portcullis.

Level 2: Try to not slide over the ice too badly and push the button in the east,
then reach the door. Go through the second door and avoid the arrow traps.

Level 3: Take the Wand of Telekinesis, then jump on the easternmost pillar and
push the button. Then jump two pillars north and two west. Use Daylight then use
the wand on the button on the far western wall, to raise pillar to the exit.

Level 4: Find the keys in the NW and SE corner. Exit is in the NE.

Level 5: Take the pole and flip switches with it until the southern door opens.
Then go through that door and get key (do not push the button) for the exit through the northern door.

Level 6: Step on pressure plates to create headless, then take the key (headless are killed
by arrows meant for you). Follow the instructions on the map to solve the labyrinth.

Level 7: First get the key by swimming or water-walking. Then use bullfrog jumps
(shift+J) to follow the path on the map.

[Figure 3: Level 7 Solution.]

Level 8: Find the red carpet on each ring and count clockwise. The 3rd, 5th, 2nd and
9th niche are the right ones. Then go on to loot all the rooms (look for secret doors
and hidden items). Pick up the blackrock gem and use the scepter on the big pentagram.
Then you can exit (but more is to be done, see below).

Things you should do
--------------------

Talk with Elster to get a lot of information.  When you return from mastering the final exam,
Elster has tried to do it himself, but got killed in the first test. You can find his remains there.

Break into the secure vault after finishing the final exam. This is a complicated venture, but well worth the effort.

First get the key and the fraznium circlet from the rooms of the testers.

Then unlock the door to enter the vault.

De-activate the rune by throwing a coin into it, then flip the switch by either
using Telekinesis or a Magic Arrow.

In the water section, use the map to first find the button. After pushing it,
go to the now open door.

Next go north to find another button behind a secret wall to open the next door.

The following section has a very easy way to bypass this test. Cast Bounce, then run
through the door. You will bounce through all three rooms and land in the water to stop bouncing.

Enter the vault through the fake wall and raid it, then put on the fraznium circlet and go
through the second fake wall to raid this vault as well (look carefully at the floor for the secret locker).

The loot is impressive: the ultra-rare and useful TYM and VAS rune stones, the Axe of Fire Doom,
numerous valuables and potions. After grabbing it all, exit through the teleporter at the end of the corridor.

After entering the vault, take one FLAM rune stone for yourself, but take another and do not put
it into the rune bag. You will have a use for it later.
Important Loot

The Hand Axe of Major Damage and the Leather Boots of Very Great Toughness are both found on level 4.
A moonstone is found on level 5. Take it, together with the one found in Britannia, it will enable you to use Gate Travel.
In the quarters on level 8, you will find a Mace of Unsurpassed Accuracy.


Pits of Carnage
---------------

This is a brutal place. As the name says, the survival of the fittest is the rule here.
Do not think for too long, your sword is your best friend in this place,
where the Guardian banishes the ones that are too brutal even for his purposes.

(X) = Tasks you can only do or solve after visiting another world or a story point

Things you have to do
---------------------

Secure your position in the Pits. Do this by first defeating Krilner (a scratch is enough)
and then fight three random Pit Fighters and defeat them to gain their respect.

Cut the line of power with the Scepter in the northern room with the trap door.

Get the blackrock gem. Dorstag has it and talking with him (after gaining respect)
yields no result. There are two ways to get it:

1. Talk with Krilner and Zogith about Dorstag, then go to Zaria. When she tries to goad you into
a challenge, imply that women cannot fight, then demand the arena of earth.
Go back to Dorstag. When he tries to lure you into a challenge, imply he is afraid to
get another scar (do not mention it before) then chose the arena of earth.
The battle will be hard, so it is best to do it after getting the Sword of Stone
Strike. After he is dead, get the gem.

2. Reach level three and find Blog. Be friendly and agree to a game. Give him your
grey stone from Tarna, then ask for his help to get the gem. Return to Dorstag,
demand the gem and Blog will make sure you get it. You can still challenge Dorstag.

(X) Help Zoranthus on level 2 to get the Scepter of Deadly Seeker. He promises you
to give a a djinn bottle in return. After getting the scepter from the Void,
get the bottle and let him explain what to do to contain the being into yourself.

Things you should do
--------------------

Help the mage Zogith. His first problem is that his battle tactics are wrong,
so tell him to use the arena of air. Then he needs a FLAM rune stone, so
give him your spare one from the Academy. He in turn will reveal the Valor spell
to you.

Make bets with Jospur. You get lots of gold and experience from it. Best only
do this after getting the Sword of Stone Strike. First escalate the numbers,
then battle only groups of five. When Jospur threatens to stop business,
threaten to reveal this threat and he'll continue to do business. So fight often
for big reward.

The is a hidden lair of a liche on level 3. Contrary to rumor, no teleportation
is needed. One needs to carefully search the walls at the right place
(see the map) to reveal a button that frees the way. The fiend of course has
to be killed. The loot includes Basilisk Oil, which is great if the other bottles
were wasted somehow.

Important Loot
--------------

After defeating Dorstag, break into his vault to get the extremely useful Cudgel
of Opening, which casts an Open spell on the chest or door it hits. However, you
have to repair it and first have to get rid of the guards (Sword of Stone Strike helps).

A jeweled shield is found in the northern part of level 2, while a Mace of major
Damage sits in the southern part of the same level. An earth golem on the same
level holds the only JUX rune stone of the game.

The Emerald of Regain Mana and the Gauntlets of Major Toughness are found on level 3.


Rhiannon
--------

The Tomb of the kind king Praecor Loth on Rhiannon had attracted the servants
of the Guardian for a long time, to bring their master Loth's greatest artifact.
However, the tomb is a death trap, and has killed them all. Yet you need to
master this challenge. The upside is, this tomb has lots of useful loot.

Things you have to do
---------------------

Get the blackrock gem from the NW corridor (need a rock hammer to reach).
This is also the place where you have to use the scepter in order to cut the line of power.

Get the Horn of Praecor Loth. This is complicated since the three have hidden the
dead king well away. The first two levels are not too bad, but the third
is a real labyrinth. It gets even more challenging once you reach level 4.

Talking to Morphius is useless, so use Smite Undead repeatedly to weaken him,
before using your weapon. Then search for a hidden switch in the east.

Challenge Lord Umbria. Quick climb on a ledge to avoid his golems, then smite
and kill him, before destroying his goons. In the east is a room with 16 pillars
(numbered left to right and up-down). Jump on the pillars 13-10-11-16 to reach
the pentagram, where you throw away the candles.

Lethe will go on the attack. Smite and kill her, then find the Despoiler
in the east who has the final key to reach Praecor Loth.

Once you speak with him, make him aware of the truth and listen patiently to
what he says, and he will give you the horn with no further trouble.

Things you should do
--------------------

Get all the map pieces on level 1. There are seven pieces in total, and they
make level 3 much easier.

Help Trystero on level 2 to get his bones back. You can find them at the same
place you found the blackrock gem.

Get the key from Silanus. After listening to his story, reach the drainage
control in the SE. After pushing the button, go to the NE and search for a
secret button in the water area to reveal the key. The key creates a shortcut
with the nearby door and allows you to bypass Morphius by opening his door.

Get the blue banner of Killorn from Loth's grave site for Ogri on Killorn Keep.

Important Loot
--------------

(So much loot, only the best is listed. See maps for other locations)

The Sword of Stone Strike in the SE of level 1. Fly there, open the portcullis
with Open and take this best weapon of the game! On the same level, you find
the Breast Plate of Very Great Protection in the E.

The Tower Shield of Very Great Toughness near the stairs to level 3.

The Leather Vest of Flameproof is found in the S of level 3. It will be very
important in the northern part of the level and in the Void. Also enables usage
of the Axe of Firedoom.

The Plate Boots of Unsurpassed Toughness and the Ring of Regeneration are found
in the center of level 3 in a secret room. On the same level near the stairs
to level four are the Plate Leggins of Great Protection.

Loth's grave includes the Mace of Undead Bane.


Ethereal Void
-------------

[The map of the Ethereal Void]

To master this huge puzzle you need to find out how to exactly reach your goal...
and leave it after you are done.

Before entering the Ethereal Void, you seek out a particular plant, which grows
on gravesites. You obtain it in Anodunos, or in the Hall of Losers. After eating
it, you go to sleep and finds yourself inside the Shrine of Spirituality.

Things you have to do
---------------------

Your main and only objective is to clear the way to the Shrine of Spirituality.
However, to actually do so, you first have to clear the four colored worlds.
You can enter these worlds by entering a moongate of the color. After finishing
the world, you have to re-color the Pyramid of Many Colors each time to the fitting
color, before using the exit moongate to reach a reward chamber.

Red: wear the Leather Vest of Flameproof. Slaughter everything, then take the
Scepter of Deadly Seeker for Zoranthus after killing the Destroyer. Follow the path
until you reach the exit.

Yellow: The whole labyrinth is a huge distraction. Cast Fly to bypass it and reach
the SE, where in a separate chamber you find the exit moongate. Beware of the
brain creatures!

Blue: walk S and then either fly or use the bouncing pad to reach the exit.

Purple: explore the area until you reach a slope that leads to a gate shaped
like the Guardian. Once you are in the early dungeon, go straight ahead and
follow the path, until you get to the exit.

After doing so, the color orange will become available. Enter the new, orange
moongate and again re-color the pyramid, before using the exit gate to reach the
shrine. First use the scepter to cut the line of power. To get the blackrock gem,
you have several options:

1. Fly up and teleport yourself through the bars.

2. Fly up, throw a moonstone through the bars and gate yourself inside.

3. Eat a Dream Herb and once you dream of the shrine, take the gem and throw it
through the bars. Pick it up after waking up.

Things you should do
--------------------

Learn from the dreamers what secrets the various zones hold.

Give Prinx in the blue area two eyeballs of a brain creature in order to get a
good scroll from him.

Make a deal with the xorinite wisp in the blue area. Tell him that Bishop
has escaped, and in turn learn what happened with the Trilkhai, which
you can tell Blackie on Killorn Keep.

Important Loot
--------------

Battle Axe of Life Stealing on the purple path in the stick maze. It is behind
a false wall (not a secret door) sort of near the exit of the maze.

Mail shirt of Tremendous Protection in blue area by the resilient circle.

Endgame Preparations
--------------------

Now that all worlds are done, you should have done the following things:

Cut all eight lines of power.

Fused all eight blackrock gems into the portal jewel (it should be flashing now).

Gotten the Horn of Praecor Loth, the djinn bottle and basilisk oil.

For the next part, you have to trap the djinn inside yourself.

Ask Merzan on Killorn Keep for special and buy a potion of Iron Flesh
(You can also use the spell instead).

Go to Anodunos and throw the basilisk oil into the filanium deposit in the east
of the 2nd level, then bathe in it.

Next go to Talorus and stand in the lava in the 2nd level to bake the mud on you.
Alternatively, you can go to the brain creature room in Killorn Keep for lava.

Go to the Void next. Walk through white moongates, until you reach the Sigil of Binding.
Drink the potion to make the covering on you perfect. Put the djinn bottle in the
center of the pentagram, then break it with your weapon to trap it inside
yourself (if you did it wrong, you are dead now).

Now you need the spellbook that caused the whole mess.

Returning to Britannia, you are confronted with four of Mors Gotha’s Killorn Soldiers.
Kill them, then go to Killorn Keep. 

Mors Gotha hangs around in the barracks. Do not fall for her tempting offers
and stay firm. Injure her so that she flees and kill her goons,
then take her spellbook.

Give Nystul the spellbook, then answer "throne room" and "4".

Now finish off Mors Gotha and any of the invading forces you meet on the way
to the throne room. Once you are there, you have won.

____

This page was last edited on 8 March 2025, at 21:18.
