This website use cookies for Google Analytics. Visit the Privacy / Datenschutzerklärung page to disable Google Analytics. Diese Website benutzt Cookies für Google Analytics. Besuchen Sie die Datenschutzerklärung-Seite um Google Analytics auszuschalten. Learn more
Got it!
Sir Cabirus
Ultima Homepage
HomeContact Sir CabirusLinks
Article
Ultima Underworld II Walkthrough - Interlude VII - Charles' Key
 

There are more maps available for Castle of Lord British. To call up maps of levels other than the first, click on the dog-eared corners on the right-hand side of the map.
For further information and screenshots explore the map with the cursor. Be careful - even unmarked areas could be sensitive. Please close every little pop up browser window before you initiate a new one.

Overview
You return to the castle and get a mysterious key from Charles. You may be able to complete the contents of your rune bag too.

Things you must do
Visit Nystul once again. He will magically treat the blackrock gems you have found in Talorus and the Scintillus. Academy. Return to the sewers and use the two gems on the larger gem as you have done before, with similar results. Step through the next newly accessible facet to visit the Pits of Carnage.
Things you should do
Talk to Miranda to inform her of the discoveries you made in the planes of Talorus and the Scintillus Academy. Miranda tells you that Charles has made some sort of discovery in the storerooms
Speak with Charles. He will give you a key which he found in an old storeroom. You asume that the key will unlock something into the castle. You remember the massive locked door in the southwest on level 3. What lies behind the door is the only place in the castle you haven't explored yet. You cannot unlock the door with the Open spell, because spells above the 4th Circle cannot be casted in Britannia, as Nystul told you once. So you decide to descend to level 3 and try the key. Luckily the key does fit and you are able to open the door. Behind the door a ramp leads down to a small pond. Behind the pond is a sturdy locked chest on a small plateau. Beware of the tough red ghost who guards this room. You can try to defeat the ghost or just sneak by. Open the chest with a picklock or smash it with your fist. You will find a Nox rune stone and another moonstone here.
You have two moonstones now. To use them, cast Gate Travel (Vas Rel Por) on one, and it teleports you to the other.
Visit the trainers of your choice and improve some skills.
Things you can do
Have a chat with Patterson. The mayor of the town of Britain has some peculiar thoughts.
Items
Click here to get a list of castle items in a new browser window.

>> Pits of Carnage
<< Scintillus Academy Secure Vault
<< Walkthrough Index

 


Datenschutzerklärung / Privacy Policy    |   Impressum / Site Notice   |    Copyright © 2022 Frank Wolter. All rights reserved.